## v1.1.0

* [Router] Add a new `Redirect.Method` called `Redirect.Force` which bypasses the History API and
  redirects by setting `window.location.href` directly.

* [Router] Add a new rewrite rule `removeQuery` which removes the query portion of a URL.
  (e.g. `a/b?c=1` to `a/b`)

* Opening links in new tabs using `target="_blank"` without `rel="noopener` is a
  [security risk and performance impediment](https://blog.dareboost.com/en/2017/03/target-blank-links-rel-noopener-performance-security/).
  Google's Lighthouse auditor [flags it](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/audits/noopener).

  Two new methods have been introduced to scalajs-react that address this by default:

  * The anchor vdom tag (`<.a`) gained `.toNewWindow`:

      ```scala
      /** A link to open a new window (tab) to a given URL.
        *
        * Like: `<a href="https://google.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener"></a>`
        *
        * @param noopener See https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/audits/noopener
        */
      def toNewWindow(href      : String,
                      noopener  : Boolean = true,
                      noreferrer: Boolean = false)
      ```

  * Added `CallbackTo.windowOpen`:
      ```scala
      /** When executed, opens a new window (tab) to a given URL.
        *
        * @param noopener See https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/audits/noopener
        * @param focus    Whether or not to focus the new window.
        */
      def windowOpen(url     : String,
                     noopener: Boolean = true,
                     focus   : Boolean = true): CallbackTo[Window] =
      ```

* Add `.renderIntoDOM` to `VdomElement` and `VdomTag`s.

* Fix VDOM attributes not accepting types: `Byte`, `Short`, `Float`, `Double`, `Long`

* Fix React warnings with SVG VDOM.

* Refactored `vdom.Builder` which is an internal mechanism for efficiently composing VDOM.
  There is now:
  * An interface - advanced users can create their own if they like
  * `vdom.Builder.ToVdomElement` - builds a `VdomElement` which was the previous default
  * `vdom.Builder.ToJs` - provides raw JS values like `props: js.Object` and more

* `vdom.TagMod` now has a `.toJs` method which turns the VDOM tree into a bunch of raw JS values.
  This is for advanced hackers only.

* Remove code deprecated ≤ v1.0.0.

* Upgrade dependencies:
  * Scalaz to v7.2.14
  * Scala.JS to v0.6.18
  * scala-js-dom to v0.9.3
  * React to v15.6.1
