## v1.1.1

*This will be the last release targeting React v15. The next release (v1.2.0) will require React v16.*

<br>

* When VDOM has been imported, VDOM collections (eg. `List[VdomTag]`) gain two `.mkTagMod` methods that are VDOM
  equivalents of `.mkString` in Scala's stdlib.
  * `mkTagMod(sep: TagMod): TagMod`
  * `mkTagMod(start: TagMod, sep: TagMod, end: TagMod): TagMod`

* Add `Reusability.derive[A]` and `Reusability.deriveDebug[A]` which handles sealed traits and sealed abstract classes
  in addition to case classes. `Reusability.caseClass{,Debug}` is therefore deprecated. (Migration command below)

* Add to `StateSnapshot[S]` instances:
  * `.xmapState[T](f: S => T)(g: T => S)     : StateSnapshot[T]` (Disables `Reusability` on the result)
  * `.zoomState[T](f: S => T)(g: T => S => S): StateSnapshot[T]` (Disables `Reusability` on the result)
  * `.withReuse.xmapState[T](iso : Reusable[(S => T, T => S)])     : StateSnapshot[T]`
  * `.withReuse.zoomState[T](lens: Reusable[(S => T, T => S => S)]): StateSnapshot[T]`
  * `.withReuse.xmapStateL[T](iso : Reusable[Iso [S, T]]): StateSnapshot[T]` (requires `ext-monocle` module)
  * `.withReuse.zoomStateL[T](lens: Reusable[Lens[S, T]]): StateSnapshot[T]` (requires `ext-monocle` module)

* Add HTML style: `overflowWrap`

* Add `CallbackTo.confirm(String): CallbackTo[Boolean]` which displays a modal dialog with a message and two buttons,
  OK and Cancel.

* Add `CallbackTo.prompt(String?, String?): CallbackTo[Option[String]]` which calls DOM `Window.prompt()`, displaying a
  dialog with an optional message prompting the user to input some text.

* Add `CallbackTo.retryUntilRight[L, R](attempt: CallbackTo[Either[L, R]])(onLeft: L => Callback): CallbackTo[R]`.

* Add `CallbackTo[Boolean]#requireCBO: CallbackOption[Unit]` that requires the boolean value therein to be true.

* Add `scalaz.Distributive[CallbackTo]` instance

* Cats and Scalaz ext modules gained `runStateM` and `runStateFnM` which preserve the state monad M effect

* Upgrade dependencies
  * Cats 1.0.0-MF
  * Scala 2.12.4
  * Scala.JS 0.6.20
  * Scalaz 7.2.16

#### Migration

```sh
find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/(Reusability[ .]*)caseClass(Debug)?(?!E)/$1derive$2/g' {} +
```
