# v1.2.0

A big thanks to my recent [patrons](https://www.patreon.com/japgolly)
who bumped this release up my personal-time priorities
and provided significant motivation (through my gratitude) to get through all the work this release needed.


## Highlights

* React 16 support and adherence
* New shapes for `setState` & `modState`, and their propagation all over
* Type-safe and purely-functional AJAX
* Type-safe and purely-functional refs
* detailed error messages for invalid JS components

(Don't miss the migration section below!)


## Detail

* [React 16] New render return types
  * Strings
  * Numbers
  * `EmptyVdom`
  * `Option[_]`
  * `VdomArray`
  * `ReactFragment`
  * `ReactPortal`

* [React 16] keys can no longer be booleans

* [React 16] Everywhere that there was `setState(S)` and `modState(S => S)`, there is now
  `setStateOption(Option[S])` and `modStateOption(S => Option[S])`.

* [React v?] Everywhere that there was `modState(S => S)`, there is now `modState((S, P) => S)`
  to use the current component props value when calculating a state change.
  *(I'm not sure in which React release this was introduced; it was either undocumented or I accidentally missed it.)*

* [React 16] Add new lifecycle method: `componentDidCatch`.
  *(read about this! It's important. As of React 16 errors bubble up through your component tree
  and will unmount your entire app if unhandled.)*

* [React 16] `.getDOMNode` now return `Either[dom.Text | dom.Element]` instead of just `dom.Element`.
  Implicit methods have been added: `.to{Element,Text}` to return an `Option[dom.{Element,Text}]`,
  and `.as{Element,Text}` to return an `dom.{Element,Text}` and throw otherwise.

* [React 16] The `.raw` packages have been migrated to the new types of React 16 and reorganised to match their JS counterparts.
  Examples:
  * `.raw.ReactChildren` => `.raw.React.Children`
  * `.raw.ReactComponentEs6` => `.raw.React.Component`
  * `.raw.ReactNode` => `.raw.React.Node`
  * etc

* VDOM changes:
  * `EmptyVdom` is now a `VdomNode` instead of a `TagMod`. If you want the old behaviour, use `TagMod.empty`
  * New constructors:
    * `ReactFragment(ns: VdomNode*)`
    * `ReactFragment.withKey(key: Key)(ns: VdomNode*)`
    * `ReactPortal(child: VdomNode, container: DomContainer)`
  * New attributes:
    * `hidden`
    * `on`
  * The following attributes are now boolean-only:
    * `async`
    * `controls`
    * `default`
    * `defer`
    * `formNoValidate`
    * `itemScope`
    * `loop`
    * `multiple`
    * `muted`
    * `noValidate`
    * `open`
    * `reserved`
    * `scoped`
    * `seamless`
    * `selected`

* Added new classes that you can use to pass around a single function that
  does `setState` or `modState` respectively, with downstream callers able to choose the variation they need.
  (Eg. `setState(s)` or `setState(Option(s), cb)`)

  ```scala
  SetStateFn[F, S]
  ModStateFn[F, S]
  ModStateWithPropsFn[F, P, S]

  // And aliases:
  SetStateFnPure[S]
  SetStateFnImpure[S]
  ModStateFnPure[S]
  ModStateFnImpure[S]
  ModStateWithPropsFnPure[P, S]
  ModStateWithPropsFnImpure[P, S]
  ```


* `StateAccessor` typeclasses now support all the `…{set,mod}State…` methods that `StateAccess` provides,
  including the optional `Callback` args and the new `{set,mod}StateOption` methods.
  This has required a slight change to typeclass usage syntax: instead of `stateAccessor.setState($)(s)`
  it's now `stateAccessor($).setState(s, [cb])`.

* `StateSnapshot` now supports all the `…{set,mod}State…` methods that `StateAccess` provides,
  including the optional `Callback` args and the new `{set,mod}StateOption` methods.
  Most of the DSL to create `StateSnapshot`s is unchanged but if you're creating `StateSnapshot`s manually by passing in
  functions then you'll need to change then from `S => Callback` to `(Option[S], Callback) => Callback` or `SetStateFn[S]`.
  (See [ReuseExample](https://japgolly.github.io/scalajs-react/#examples/reusability) for an example)

* Add a purely-functional `Callback`-integrated Ajax helper to the `extra` module.
  ([demo here](https://japgolly.github.io/scalajs-react/#examples/ajax))

* Much more detailed error messages when you try to create JS components with invalid arguments. Sample:

  ```
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Invalid JsComponent! You've called JsComponent(undefined)
  Source: com.whatever.finance.money.wealth.MoneyMaker.Component (line #37)

  Make sure that
    * your @JSImport / @JSGlobal annotations have the correct values
    * the JS that you're referencing has been loaded into the JS environment
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  ```

* Add `CallbackKleisli[A, B]`
  (aka `Kleisli[CallbackTo, A, B]` aka `ReaderT[A, CallbackTo, B]`, definition: `A => CallbackTo[B]`)
  to `core` module.

* Add to `object Reusable`
  * `callbackByRef[A](c: CallbackTo[A]): Reusable[CallbackTo[A]]`
  * `callbackOptionByRef[A](c: CallbackOption[A]): Reusable[CallbackOption[A]]`
  * `byRefIso[A, B <: AnyRef](a: A)(iso: A => B): Reusable[A]` - Compare by reference through an isomorphism

* Added `Reusability#logNonReusable` to log a warning when instance is non-reusable

* Add `Px.ManualCollection` which is a little add-only mutable collection of manual `Px` thunks, with a refresh function
  that refreshes everything in the collection at once.
  Idea is that you create and store it in your component backend, register `Px`s as you create them, then call
  `refresh()` in your render function.

* Added type class instances:
  * `cats.arrow.Arrow[CallbackKleisli]`
  * `cats.arrow.Choice[CallbackKleisli]`
  * `cats.MonadError[CallbackKleisli[A, ?], Throwable]`
  * `cats.MonadError[CallbackTo, Throwable]`
  * `scalaz.Arrow[CallbackKleisli]`
  * `scalaz.BindRec[CallbackKleisli[A, ?]]`
  * `scalaz.Choice[CallbackKleisli]`
  * `scalaz.Distributive[CallbackKleisli[A, ?]]`
  * `scalaz.MonadError[CallbackKleisli[A, ?], Throwable]`
  * `scalaz.MonadError[CallbackTo, Throwable]`
  * `scalaz.MonadPlus[CallbackOption]`
  * `scalaz.MonadReader[CallbackKleisli[A, ?], A]`

* Added `ext-monocle-cats` module with the same API as `ext-monocle` but using the Cats version of Monocle.

* Removed
  * `CallbackOption#get` - deprecated in 1.0.1
  * `CallbackOption#toBoolCB` - deprecated in 1.0.1
  * `.isMounted()` - removed by React
  * `ReactAddons` - No longer has any content
    * `CSSTransitionGroup` - React have moved this into its own separate library
    * `Perf` - React have removed this entirely in React 16
  * `ScalaComponent.Builder#buildWithReactCreateClass` - `React.createClass` was removed in React 16
  * `WebpackRequire` - deprecated in 1.0.1

* Upgrades
  * Cats 1.0.1
  * Monocle 1.5.0
  * Scala 2.11.12
  * Scala.JS 0.6.22
  * Scala.JS DOM 0.9.4
  * Scalaz 7.2.20


## Migration

* `EmptyVdom` is now a `VdomNode` instead of a `TagMod`.
  If an empty `TagMod` is actually what you want use `TagMod.empty` instead.

* Refs have are now pure, type-safe, and NPE safe.
  Migrate with:
  ```sh
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/((Js|Scala)Component)[ .]+mutableRefTo/Ref.to$1/g' {} +
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/(?<=[ .])ref\( *([a-zA-Z0-9_]+) += +_ *\)/withRef($1)/g' {} +
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/^( *(?:private\S*|protected)? +)var +([a-zA-Z0-9_]+) *: *(((html|svg|dom)\.|(HTML|SVG))[a-zA-Z0-9_.]+) += +(?:_|null) *$/$1val $2 = Ref[$3]/' {} +
  ```

  Usage changes are as follows:

  ```diff
     class Backend($: BackendScope[Unit, String]) {

  -    var inputRef: html.Input = _
  +    val inputRef = Ref[html.Input]

       def handleChange(e: ReactEventFromInput) =
         $.setState(e.target.value)

       def clearAndFocusInput() =
  -      $.setState("", Callback(inputRef.focus()))
  +      $.setState("", inputRef.foreach(_.focus()))

       def render(state: String) =
         <.div(
           <.div(
             ^.onClick --> clearAndFocusInput,
             "Click to Focus and Reset"),
           <.input(
             ^.value     := state,
             ^.onChange ==> handleChange)
  -          .ref(inputRef = _)
  +          .withRef(inputRef)
         )
     }
  ```

  ```diff
     val scalaRef =
  -    ScalaComponent.mutableRefTo(MyScalaComponent)
  +    Ref.toScalaComponent(MyScalaComponent)

     val jsRef =
  -    JsComponent.mutableRefTo(MyJsComponent)
  +    Ref.toJsComponent(MyJsComponent)
  ```

  In your unit tests you often just want to get the ref value without worrying about safety; for that case,
  call `.unsafeGet()` on your ref.

* `.getDOMNode` used to return a `dom.Element` but now returns an `Either[dom.Text, dom.Element]` because that's
  what React 16 now returns.
  `.getDOMNode.map(_.asElement)` and `.getDOMNode.asElement` are replacements for `.getDOMNode` in the pure/`CallbackTo`
  and impure/`Id` flavours respectively.

  It's usually the pure version in main code and the impure one in unit tests so use the following to migration commands
  to help you along:

  ```sh
  # .getDOMNode => .getDOMNode.map(.asElement)
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/(?<![a-zA-Z0-9_])getDOMNode(?![a-zA-Z0-9_])(?![. ]dom(?:as|To)Html)(?![. ]domCast)/getDOMNode.map(.asElement)/g' {} +

  # .getDOMNode => .getDOMNode.asElement
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/(?<![a-zA-Z0-9_])getDOMNode(?![a-zA-Z0-9_])(?![. ]dom(?:as|To)Html)(?![. ]domCast)/getDOMNode.asElement/g' {} +
  ```

* If you use [Scala Test-State](https://github.com/japgolly/test-state/), you'll need to upgrade to 2.1.3.


## Support

If you like what I do
—my OSS libraries, my contributions to other OSS libs, [my programming blog](https://japgolly.blogspot.com)—
and you'd like to support me, more content, more lib maintenance, [please become a patron](https://www.patreon.com/japgolly)!
I do all my OSS work unpaid so showing your support will make a big difference.
