## 0.10.5 ([commit log](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/compare/v0.10.4...v0.10.5)) (UNRELEASED)

* Changed order and constraints of type params of `japgolly.scalajs.react.extra.router.StaticDsl.RouteCommon`.
* Add to `extra.router`'s `Route[A]`:
  * `.pmap[B](A => Option[B])(B => A): Route[B]`
  * `.pmapL[B](Prism[A, B]): Route[B]`
* Increase and improve `Router` logging. (Still off by default. Remember to use `.logToConsole` to enable.)
* Add auto-correction to routes. See [Loose routes with auto-correction](../ROUTER.md#loose-routes-with-auto-correction).
* Router `Rule#action` changed from `Page => Option[Action[Page]]` to `(Path, Page) => Option[Action[Page]]`.
* Add new Router DSL:
  * `remainingPath` - Captures the (non-empty) remaining portion of the URL path.
  * `remainingPathOrBlank` - Captures the (potentially-empty) remaining portion of the URL path.
* Add `ReactTestVar` to `test` module that can be used to mock the following types in tests:
  * `ExternalVar[A]`
  * `ReusableVar[A]`
  [Example.](../TESTING.md#reacttestvar)
* Replace `BaseUrl.fromWindowOrigin` with a more IE-friendly implementation that does not use `location.origin`.
* Add `ReactTestUtils.withRenderedIntoDocument` which calls `renderIntoDocument`, and automatically unmounts the component when done.
* Component state changing can now return a `Future[Unit]` and a `CallbackTo[Future[Unit]]`.
* Add `StatefulParent` to `test` module. ([Doco](../TESTING.md#statefulparent))
* VDOM `val`s changed to `lazy val`s. Improves JS' startup performance and allows more DCE (dead-code elimination).
  In the case of this project's `gh-pages` JS, it shaved 19k off the JS output size.
* In [production mode](https://github.com/scala-js/scala-js/issues/1998) (`fullOptJS`)
  we now [inline elements like Babel does](http://babeljs.io/blog/2015/03/31/5.0.0/#inline-elements)
  which improves runtime performance.
* Add `ReactTestUtils.removeReactDataAttr(html: String): String` which removes React's internal-use data attributes from HTML.
* Add a new package `….react.experimental` containing:
  * `StaticPropComponent` - A means of creating a component with static and dynamic props such that
      the component's backend can safely create local constants based on the static props.
* Added `zoom{,L}` methods to `CompState.WriteAccess[S]`.
