# 0.10.2 ([commit log](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/compare/v0.10.1...v0.10.2))

##### Upgrade React to 0.14.3.
Adds new attributes:
  * `integrity`
  * `nonce`
  * `reversed`

React is now published to Bower in such a way that `ReactDOMServer` is accessible.
`ReactDOMServer` now appears in scalajs-react and its methods on `React` have been deprecated.

To upgrade:

1. Update your codebase to use `ReactDOMServer` with:
  ```
  find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e \
    's/(?<=React)([ .]+renderTo(?:String|StaticMarkup))(?!\w)/DOMServer$1/g' {} +
  ```

2. Ensure that you change your dependencies in SBT to use Bower instead of NPM.
   <br>[SBT snippet here](/doc/TESTING.md#setup).

##### Core
* Added shortcuts for `<input>` DOM with type: `<.input.{type}`.
  <br>Example: `<.input.text(…)` can replace ```<.input(^.`type` := "text", …)```
* Bugfix: `CallbackTo(…).flatten` usage wouldn't compile.
* Bugfix: There were a number of `Event` methods missing and with incorrect signatures. *([diff](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/commit/010ab527f62013f82afc94f5bee1f5900d8ddcde))*
* Added `ReactMouseEvent.targetsNewTab_?` to determine whether a mouse event (applied to a link), would open it in a new tab?
* Added to `CallbackTo` object:
  * `sequence`
  * `sequenceO`
  * `traverse`
  * `traverseO`
* Added to `CallbackOption` object:
  * `liftOptionCallback`
  * `liftOptionLikeCallback`
  * `sequence`
  * `sequenceO`
  * `traverse`
  * `traverseO`
* Added type aliases to CompState: `{,Read,Write}Access{,D}, AccessRD`.
* Deprecated and renamed:
  * `StateAccessCB` → `CompState.Access`
  * `StateAccessDirect` → `CompState.AccessD`

##### `extra` module
* Allow router-provided links to be opened in new tabs via the normal browser mechanisms (middle-click, ctrl-click).
* Add convenience methods to `router.BaseUrl`:
  * `BaseUrl.fromWindowUrl(String => String)`
  * `BaseUrl.until(String)`
  * `BaseUrl.until_#` ← Replaces `BaseUrl(dom.window.location.href.takeWhile(_ != '#'))`
* Add to `ExternalVar` and `ReusableVar` objects: `s$(state, $)`.

##### `ext-monocle` module
* Add to component scopes: `modStateL` and `setStateL`.
* Add to `ExternalVar` and `ReusableVar` objects: `at(lens)(state, $)`.

##### `ext-scalaz` module
* Add `Monad[CallbackOption]`.

##### `test` module
* More test event properties settable. *([diff](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/commit/d58883a58becc1eda6aa5371a55e798c2d1b71c0))*
* Many `Simulation` events now get default event properties. (prevents stupid PhantomJS crashing) *([diff](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/commit/5a20e96e27e78af86c691f52565941029ec7e35b))*
