# 0.11.0 ([commit log](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/compare/v0.10.4...v0.11.0))

### Libraries

* Upgrade React to [v15](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2016/04/07/react-v15.html). (Currently [15.0.1](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2016/04/08/react-v15.0.1.html).)
  * New HTML attributes:
    * `cite`
    * `profile`
    * `onAnimationStart`
    * `onAnimationEnd`
    * `onAnimationIteration`
    * `onTransitionEnd`
    * `onInvalid`
  * Remove top-level `React` APIs deprecated in React 14.
  * Remove `ReactCloneWithProps` which was deprecated in React 14.
  * `Addons.Perf.Measurements` is now opaque. This is temporary. See https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/6286.
  * `Addons.Perf.printDOM()` has been deprecated and renamed to `.printOperations()`.
* Upgrade Scala.JS to 0.6.8.
* Upgrade scalajs-dom to 0.9.0.
* Upgrade Scalaz module to use 7.2.1 - the first official Scala.JS release of Scalaz.
* Switch Monocle from 1.2.0 to 1.2.0-2 which uses the official Scalaz 7.2.1.
* Drop support for Scalaz 7.1.

Also if you use [ScalaCSS](https://github.com/japgolly/scalacss), you'll need to update to 0.4.1.

### Core

* When building a component, `.buildU` has been deprecated. `.build` now handles both cases.
* Add a new package `….react.experimental` containing:
  * `StaticPropComponent` - A means of creating a component with static and dynamic props such that
      the component's backend can safely create local constants based on the static props.
* Component state changing can now return a `Future[Unit]` and a `CallbackTo[Future[Unit]]`.
* Add `.displayName: String` to React components (specifically constructors and mounted instances).
* `PropsChildren` is now a `js.Array[ReactNode]`.
* `ReactEvent`s gained `.extract(getNow: Event => A)(useAsync: A => B): B` as a convenience method to extract an event value for asynchronous use.
  (See [#255](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/issues/255).)
* Add `.pressedModifierKeys()` to `ReactKeyboardEvent` which checks the state of all pressed modifier keys.
  (This replaces `ReactKeyboardEvent.checkKeyMods`.)
* Added `zoom{,L}` methods to `CompState.WriteAccess[S]`.

### Callbacks

* Add to `Callback{,To}.attemptTry` which catches non-fatal errors using a Scala `Try`.
* The following `Callback` methods have been changed to prevent `scalac` silent throwing away your results in certain
  scenarios (eg. accidentally use `.map` to another `Callback` instead of using `.flatMap`).
  This is a problem with Scala and `Unit` - you can experience the same with `scala.concurrent.Future` too, but at least
  it's fixed (worked-around) here.
  * `.map` and its alias `|>` in `Callback(To)`.
  * `.map` and its alias `|>` in `CallbackOption`.
  * `.thenRun` in `Callback(To)`.
* Deprecated `Callback.ifTrue` and `Callback#conditionally`.
  Added `.when` and `.unless`, both on `Callback` instances and the `Callback` object.
* Added to `CallbackOption`:
  * `.when(=> Boolean)`
  * `.unless(=> Boolean)`
  * `.filterNot(A => Boolean)`
* `Callback{,To,Option}` are now covariant by (zero-cost) implicit conversion.
* `CallbackOption.keyCodeSwitch` to use events' `.keyCode` instead of `.nativeEvent.keyCode`.

### Extra

* Add a `TriStateCheckbox` component. ([demo](https://japgolly.github.io/scalajs-react/#examples/tristate-checkbox))
* Add to `Reusability`:
  * `.map` for creating `Reusability[Map[K, V]]` instances. *(not implicit)*
  * `.whenTrue`.
  * `.whenFalse`.
* Add `Reusability.caseClassExcept(fields*)` to exclude case class fields from the reusability check.

### Router

* Add auto-correction to routes. See [Loose routes with auto-correction](../ROUTER.md#loose-routes-with-auto-correction).
* Replace `BaseUrl.fromWindowOrigin` with a more IE-friendly implementation that does not use `location.origin`.
* Add new Router DSL:
  * `remainingPath` - Captures the (non-empty) remaining portion of the URL path.
  * `remainingPathOrBlank` - Captures the (potentially-empty) remaining portion of the URL path.
* Increase and improve `Router` logging. (Still off by default. Remember to use `.logToConsole` to enable.)
* Add to `extra.router`'s `Route[A]`:
  * `.pmap[B](A => Option[B])(B => A): Route[B]`
  * `.pmapL[B](Prism[A, B]): Route[B]`
* Router `Rule#action` changed from `Page => Option[Action[Page]]` to `(Path, Page) => Option[Action[Page]]`.
* Changed order and constraints of type params of `japgolly.scalajs.react.extra.router.StaticDsl.RouteCommon`.

### Dev-only Tags

It's now possible to create markup that is omitted by the compiler during `fullOptJS`.

An example use-case is adding `data-xxxx` attributes to tags for unit tests to find.
In such a case you'd want the attributes (and their values) completely removed from the production JS.

* Add `TagMod.devOnly` which makes a given `TagMod` appear in dev (`fastOptJS`) and not prod (`fullOptJS`).
  (Unfortunately it only accepts one arg at a time because Scala doesn't allow by-name varargs.)
* Add `ReactAttr.devOnly` to create DOM attributes that appear in dev (`fastOptJS`) and not prod (`fullOptJS`).
* Add `ReactStyle.devOnly` to create DOM styles that appear in dev (`fastOptJS`) and not prod (`fullOptJS`).

### Optimisation

* VDOM `val`s changed to `lazy val`s. Improves JS' startup performance and allows more DCE (dead-code elimination).
  In the case of this project's `gh-pages` JS, it shaved 19k off the JS output size.
* In [production mode](https://github.com/scala-js/scala-js/issues/1998) (`fullOptJS`)
  we now [inline elements like Babel does](http://babeljs.io/blog/2015/03/31/5.0.0/#inline-elements)
  which improves runtime performance.
* Refactor embedded Scalatags. Now has less classes + traits, and is much cleaner.
  Unless you extend it yourself (which you're free to do but isn't officially supported) you won't be affected.

### Testing

* Add `ReactTestVar` to `test` module that can be used to mock the following types in tests:
  * `ExternalVar[A]`
  * `ReusableVar[A]`
  [Example.](../TESTING.md#reacttestvar)
* Add `ComponentTester` to `test` module. ([Doco](../TESTING.md#componenttester))
* Add `WithExternalCompStateAccess` to `test` module. ([Doco](../TESTING.md#withexternalcompstateaccess))
* Add `ReactTestUtils.withRenderedIntoDocument` which calls `renderIntoDocument`, and automatically unmounts the component when done.
* Add `ReactTestUtils.removeReactDataAttr(html: String): String` which removes React's internal-use data attributes from HTML.
* Mounted components gain `.outerHtmlWithoutReactDataAttr()` after importing `...react.test._`.
* Fixed `test` module was accidently exporting a μtest dependency.

<br>
##### Migration commands

Only one this time.
`Callback.ifTrue` may be common but it's better that you choose `when`/`unless` in each replacement in order to maximise readability.

```sh
# .buildU → .build
find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e 's/(?<=\.build)U(?![a-zA-Z0-9_])//' {} +
```
