## v1.0.1


Usually the first release after a v1.0 fixes a bunch of bugs and starts promoting confidence in stability.
I'm very happy to report that scalajs-react v1.0 was rock solid and as of yet, no bugfixes have been necessary!
This majority of changes in this release are API convenience.


* Use new Scala.JS 0.6.17 annotations so that React facades JustWork when compiling to modules.
  `WebpackRequire` is no longer required and thus deprecated.
  You can also remove `expose-loader` from your scalajs-bundler config.

* Add to `Option[Callback]`: `.getOrEmpty` which is a convenience for writing `.getOrElse(Callback.empty)`

* Add `when/unless` to `object TagMod`.
  Unlike `<tagmod>.when(Boolean)` this can avoid creating vdom only to throw it away.
  …Which sounds great but in nearly all cases it's not going to matter;
  in most usages this will save less than 100ns, where as unless you're doing custom animations you've
  got approx 80,000,000ns to complete a render cycle in order to appear *instantaneous* to users.
  Unless you've got a huge monolithic component, or need to perform significant processing,
  don't feel obliged to rewrite all of your `when/unless` clauses.
  Better to see [PERFORMANCE.md](../PERFORMANCE.md) for more effective solutions to improve performance.

* Add `Reusability#reusable(A)` as a flipped alternative of `Reusable.explicitly(A)(Reusability)` that avoids
  annoying Scala type inference problems in certain situations.

* Deprecate
  * `WebpackRequire` as mentioned above
  * `ReactAddons.CSSTransitionGroup` which has been deprecated by React ([see](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/animation.html))
  * `CallbackOption`: `.get.void` → `.toCallback`
  * `CallbackOption`: `.get` → `.asCallback`
  * `CallbackOption`: `.toBoolCB` → `.asCallback.map(_.isDefined)`

* Add helpers to `SimEvent.Keyboard` that sync keyCodes and keyValues. Examples:

  ```scala
    def F1   = SimEvent.Keyboard(key = KeyValue.F1       , keyCode = KeyCode.F1)
    def Down = SimEvent.Keyboard(key = KeyValue.ArrowDown, keyCode = KeyCode.Down)
    def A    = SimEvent.Keyboard(key = "A"               , keyCode = KeyCode.A)
    def a    = SimEvent.Keyboard(key = "a"               , keyCode = KeyCode.A)
  ```

* Upgrade
  * Scala.JS to 0.6.17
  * Scalaz to 7.2.13
  * scalajs-dom to 0.9.2

