# 1.0.0-RC1

See https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/blob/v1.0.0-RC1/doc/changelog/1.0.0.md


# 1.0.0-RC2

* Rename `ScalaComponent.build{ ⇒ er}`
* Curry `ScalaComponent.{,builder.}static`
* Mounted components' `isMounted` result is now `Option[Boolean]` as it isn't available on all components.
* ES6 component classes:
  * Add raw facade
  * Test that Scala.JS defined classes work
  * Test that `JsComponent` works with ES6 classes
  * Allow `JsComponent#withRawType` to expose the raw ES6 class
* Add `WebpackRequire` objects for webpack/scalajs-bundler users
* Replace all overloaded `Js{,Fn}Component` `.apply` methods with `.apply(js.Any)` which expects a raw value.
* Provide useful debug info when a `Js{,Fn}Component` is constructed with an invalid value.
* There's now a Cats module, analogous to the Scalaz module.

#### Migration:
1. Run:
    ```sh
    find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e '
      s/(ScalaComponent\s*\.\s*build)(\s*\[)/\1er\2/g;
      s/(ScalaComponent\s*\.\s*static\s*\(\s*".*?")\s*, */\1)(/;
    ' {} +
    ```
2. No more `Js{,Fn}Component.apply(String)`. Instead of
    ```scala
    val Blah = JsComponent[JsProps, Children.None, JsState]("Blah")
    ```
    use one of these instead:
    ```scala
    @JSName("Blah")                // If you're not using modules
    @JSImport("./blah.js", "Blah") // If you're using modules
    @js.native
    object BlahJs extends js.Object

    val Blah = JsComponent[JsProps, Children.None, JsState](BlahJs)
    ```
    or
    ```scala
    val Blah = JsComponent[JsProps, Children.None, JsState](js.Dynamic.global.Blah)
    ```

# 1.0.0-RC3

* In router DSL, add an overload of `addCondition` that accepts `Page => CallbackTo[Boolean]`.
* In router DSL, support up to 22 params (was previously 8 due to laziness).
* Add more ScalaDoc to `Callback#runNow` that should hopefully clarify its intended usage.
* Make `RenderScope` a value class.
* Scala component builder changes:
  * `.build` now creates ES6 classes that extend `React.Component`.
    If for whatever reason you want to keep using `React.createClass` (which has been formally deprecated),
    then call `.buildWithReactCreateClass`.
  * Renamed and simplified initial-state functions.
    If you are using `.getInitialState` (doubtful anyone is), use one of the `.initialState…` methods.
    The migration script below will take care of the rest.
  * Add more ScalaDoc.
  * Internal reorganisation.
* Add `Px#toCallback`.
* In `Callback{,To,Option}` rename `traverse{O ⇒ Option}` and `sequence{O ⇒ Option}`.
* Add `CallbackTo.liftTraverse` that takes a `A => CallbackTo[B]` and given...
  * `.std[T[_]]` returns a `CallbackTo[T[A] => T[B]]` for any stdlib-traversable `T`.
  * `.option` returns a `CallbackTo[Option[A] => Option[B]]`.
  * `.id` returns a `CallbackTo[A => B]`.
* Add `Reusable.ap(ra: Reusable[A], rb: Reusable[B])(f: (A, B) => C): Reusable[C]`
* Add `Reusable[A]#ap[B](rf: Reusable[A => B]): Reusable[B]`
* Add `Reusable[A]#tuple[B](rb: Reusable[B]): Reusable[(A, B)]`
* Upgrade to React to 15.5.4.
* Upgrade to Scala.JS 0.6.15.
* Upgrade to Scala to 2.11.11 and 2.12.2.
* Upgrade to Scalaz 7.2.11.

#### Migration:
```sh
find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e '
  s/initialStateCB_P/initialStateCallbackFromProps/g;
  s/initialStateCB/initialStateCallback/g;
  s/initialState_P/initialStateFromProps/g;
  s/ScalaComponentConfig/ScalaComponent.Config/g;
  s/(Callback(?:To|Option)? *(?:\. *)?(?:traverse|sequence))O(?!\w)/\1Option/g;
' {} +
```

# 1.0.0-RC4 (unreleased)

* Fix typo in Scala builder error message.
* Add more ScalaDoc to `Reusable`.
* Add `StateSnapshot.xmap`.
