## 1.3.0

* The `.getDOMNode` callback can sometimes execute when unmounted which is an increasingly annoying bug to track down
  since React 16 with its new burn-it-all-down error handling approach. This release adjusts the types to restore
  compile-time safety. Unfortunately it's a breaking change. There is now a proper ADT:

  ```
                  ComponentDom
                        ↑
               ComponentDom.Mounted
                  ↑            ↑
  ComponentDom.Element      ComponentDom.Text
  ```

  Within lifecycle calls. `.getDOMNode` returns a `ComponentDom.Mounted` logically equivalent to before,
  where as the `.getDOMNode` on a mounted / backend scope now returns `ComponentDom` which might not be mounted.
  See the source for all available methods but you'll typically call one of the following methods:

  ```scala
  trait ComponentDom {
    def mounted  : Option[ComponentDom.Mounted]
    def toElement: Option[dom.Element]
    def toText   : Option[dom.Text]
  ```

  In unit tests you'll typically use `asMounted().asElement()` or `asMounted().asText()` for inspection.

* React 16.3 support
  * New component lifecycle: `getDerivedStateFromProps`
  * New component lifecycle: `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate`
  * React Context API implemented via `React.createContext` and `React.Context`.
  * React ref forwarding
    * Forward a ref via `React.forwardRef`
    * Wrap a JS ref-forwarding component via `JsForwardRefComponent`
    * Refs are now based on `React.createRef()`
    * Components now have `.withRef` functions just like VDOM
  * Add `React.StrictMode`

* React 16.4 support
  * Added new types:
    * `ReactPointerEvent`
    * `ReactPointerEventFrom[N]`
    * `ReactPointerEventFromHtml`
    * `ReactPointerEventFromInput`
    * `ReactPointerEventFromTextArea`
  * Added new events to the vdom and for tests, event simulation:
    * `onGotPointerCapture`
    * `onLostPointerCapture`
    * `onPointerCancel`
    * `onPointerDown`
    * `onPointerEnter`
    * `onPointerLeave`
    * `onPointerMove`
    * `onPointerOut`
    * `onPointerOver`
    * `onPointerUp`

* Added to `ScalaComponent.builder`: `.configureWhen` and `.configureUnless`

* Adding support for `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate` was quite disruptive and resulted in the following knock-on changes:
  * `.configure` in `ScalaComponent.builder` now only accepts one argument.
  * `ScalaComponent.Config` (used for externalising and reusing opaque component lifecycle logic) has changed from
     a bearable `type Config[P, C <: Children, S, B]` to the horrendous definition below. It's not something that
     many people use and even when they do it's infrequent, but hopefully a workaround can be found soon anyway.

     ```scala
     /** This is terrible and repulsive but Scala doesn't allow anything less repulsive.
       * We'll keep this correctly modelling the reality for now and soon see if maybe we can use macros to
       * simplify it's creation (and avoid the need to use this explicitly).
       */
     type Config[P, C <: Children, S, B, US <: UpdateSnapshot, US2 <: UpdateSnapshot]
     ```
  * `LogLifecycle` has been deleted without replacement

* Deprecated `ReactFragment` and replaced with `React.Fragment`.

* Add `setRequestHeader` to Ajax

* Trying to treat a JS Symbol as a React component now provides a meaningful
  error message

* Add `cloneElement(…)` to React JS facade

* Add to `japgolly.scalajs.react.test.SimEvent.{Mouse,Pointer}`
  * `def simulateClick` and `def simulationClick`
  * `def simulateContextMenu` and `def simulationContextMenu`
  * `def simulateDoubleClick` and `def simulationDoubleClick`

* Update dependencies:
  * Cats to 1.2.0
  * Scalaz to 7.2.26
  * Scala.JS to 0.6.25

## Migration

```sh
find . -name '*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e '
  s/ReactFragment/React.Fragment/g;
  ' {} +

find . -path '*/test/scala/*.scala' -type f -exec perl -pi -e '
  s/getDOMNode.asElement/getDOMNode.asMounted().asElement()/g;
  s/getDOMNode.asText/getDOMNode.asMounted().asText()/g;
  s/getDOMNode.domCast/getDOMNode.asMounted().domCast/g;
  ' {} +
```

## Support

If you like what I do
—my OSS libraries, my contributions to other OSS libs, [my programming blog](https://japgolly.blogspot.com)—
and you'd like to support me, more content, more lib maintenance, [please become a patron](https://www.patreon.com/japgolly)!
I do all my OSS work unpaid so showing your support will make a big difference.
