## 1.4.0

* React 16.6 & 16.7 support
  * Added `React.Suspense`.
    For technical reasons (types, power, constraints) `React.lazy` is not added nor needed in Scala;
    use the new `AsyncCallback` instead.
  * The new `getDerivedStateFromError` has *not* been implemented, and cannot be until facebook/react#13986 is merged.
  * Add `React.memo` to add reusability to "functional" components

* VDOM modernisation

  React's VDOM capabilities increased drastically over a year ago in the upgrade from React 15 to 16.
  Although all new features were supported in scalajs-react, there remained some impedance mismatch in
  the core VDOM types. This release subtly modernises scalajs-react's VDOM with as little API disruption
  as possible.

  Additionally, seizing the opportunity, some other fundamental VDOM improvements with regards to API
  clarity have been made.

  Changes:

  * To compose two `TagMod`s, use `TagMod(a, b)` instead of `a(b)`
  * To compose `VdomNode`s, either use `React.Fragment(a, b)` to result in something immediately renderable, or `TagMod(a, b)` if you plan to apply it to a tag.
  * VDOM tags now extends `VdomElement` directly - no need to coerce or call `.render` when caching
  * Tag building now 30% faster (but we're talking microseconds so it's negligible so why am I writing this in to the changelog?... life's a mystery)
  * Fix subtle bug/puzzler where you could think you're modifying a tag but weren't --
    the confusing behaviour responsible will now no longer compile. ([#508](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/issues/508))
  * Collections get new implicit methods `mkReactFragment` and `toReactFragment` (similar to existing `mkTagMod` and `toTagMod`)
  * Components now resolve to `VdomElement`s without the need for explicit imports.
    Typically, this means no more errors when creating router config without importing vdom.
    ([#509](https://github.com/japgolly/scalajs-react/issues/509))
  * Add `formId` HTML attribute for associating an input element with a non-ancestoral form.

* Add `AsyncCallback` which is like a pure version of Scala's `Future` and JS's `Promise`.
  Asynchronous code can be composed using `for`-comprehensions as if it's synchronous,
  it can even be composed to run sequentially or concurrently. In fact you can see an example
  of running a bunch of AJAX calls in parallel [here in this new demo](https://japgolly.github.io/scalajs-react/#examples/ajax-2).

* `Callback` changes
  * `.attemptTry` now catches all types of exception
  * Add `.memo` which memoises the result
  * Change the following to return a `AsyncCallback[A]` instead of `CallbackTo[Future[A]]`:
    * `.async`
    * `.delay`
    * `.delayMs`
  * Deprecate `.toFuture` in favour of `.asAsyncCallback.unsafeToFuture()`

* Add to `Ajax`:
  * `def asAsyncCallback: AsyncCallback[XMLHttpRequest]`
  * `def validateResponse          (XMLHttpRequest => Boolean)(AjaxException => Callback): Ajax`
  * `def validateStatus            (Int => Boolean)           (AjaxException => Callback): Ajax`
  * `def validateStatusIs          (Int)                      (AjaxException => Callback): Ajax`
  * `def validateStatusIsSuccessful                           (AjaxException => Callback): Ajax`

* `Reusability` & `Reusable` have been moved from the `extra` module, into `core`.
  1. It was required to implement the new `React.memo`
  2. It's necessary for using core React feature `shouldComponentUpdate` reasonably

* Add `ReactDOM.hydrate`

* Add to components: `.mapRaw(Raw => Raw)`

* Removed methods deprecated < 1.2.0

* Dependency upgrades:
  * Cats 1.5.0
  * Scala 2.12.8
  * Scalaz 7.2.27
  * Sourcecode 0.1.5

# Migration

* If you added `import japgolly.scalajs.react.vdom.Implicits._` or similar to use components in certain contexts
  (eg. router config) you can delete now. No replacement needed.
* `Reusability` & `Reusable` have been moved from package `japgolly.scalajs.react.extra` to `japgolly.scalajs.react`

```
find . -type f -name '*.scala' -exec perl -pi -e '

  # Replace .(async|delay|delayMs) on Callback
  s/([. ])((?:async|delay|delayMs) *\([^()]+\))/$1$2$1asCallbackToFuture/;
  s/asCallbackToFuture[. ]void/toCallback/;

  # Reusability move to core
  s/Reusability.shouldComponentUpdateWithOverlay/ReusabilityOverlay.install/;
  s/\bextra\.Reusability\b/Reusability/g;
  s/\bextra\.Reusable\b/Reusable/g;

' {} +
```
