## 1.7.6

### Misc

* Add `.timeout(timeLimit)` to `AsyncCallback` instances so that you can limit the amount of time to wait for the async
  procedure to complete.

  *(Note: there's no built-in concept of cancellation here.
  If your procedure doesn't finish in time, this will return `None` when the time limit is reached however, the
  underlying procedure will become orphaned and continue to run in the background until complete.)*

* Add convenience methods `CallbackTo` for getting the current time:
  * `now: CallbackTo[Instant]`
  * `currentTimeMillis: CallbackTo[Long]`
  * `nanoTime: CallbackTo[Long]`

* Add `StateAccess.const(F[S]): StateAccess[F, S]`

### VDOM Refs

Add a new way of creating VDOM refs, called "untyped" refs.

There are two differences between the established ("typed") way, and this "untyped" way:

1. It sacrifices some type-safety for flexibility.
   You can declare a ref to an `<input>` and apply it to a `<select>`.
   When the types don't line up, the ref simply rejects the dom it's passed.
   If you misuse this you won't get a runtime error, it will just be as though you didn't wire up the ref at all.

2. Decoupling of control. With type-safe refs, you create the ref and apply it in the same class.
   With this new "untyped" ref, you can pass the ref around and have a completely different part of the code wire it
   up to vdom.

The `untypedRef` vdom attribute already existed but wasn't properly usable. It's now fixed and there are two ways of using it.

1. The first is to just pass in a `Dom => Unit` function:

  ```scala
  var refOrNull: html.Input = null

  def render =
    <.input(^.untypedRef(refOrNull = _))
  ```

1. The second is to create a `Ref` object and wire it up like a normal vdom attribute:

  Usage:

  ```scala
  val ref = Ref.toVdom[html.Input]

  def render =
    <.input(^.untypedRef := ref)
  ```

### Reusability

* Add `Reusability.MapImplicits` which you can now import to enable implicit `Reusability` instances for `Map`s

* Add an implicit `Reusability[Range]` instance

* Add conversions between `Option[Reusable[A]]` <=> `Reusable[Option[A]]`
  * If you have a `Option[Reusable[A]]`, call `Reusable.sequenceOption`
  * If you have a `Reusable[Option[A]]`, call `.sequenceOption`

* Add `Reusable.emptyCallback: Reusable[Callback]`

* Prefix all members in `Reusability.TemporalImplicitsWithoutTolerance` by `reusability`

### Testing

* Add many more `SimEvent.Keyboard` definitions. All keys on a standard US keyboard are now covered.

* Improve accuracy of pre-defined `SimEvent.Keyboard` values

* `SimEvent` classes now have an `assign(tgt: js.Dynamic, readOnlyProperties: Boolean = false): tgt.type` method to
  populate a provided object-like value. (Useful for generating native events for testing.)

### Upgraded dependencies

* scalajs-dom 1.1.0
* scala-collection-compat 2.2.0
* Scala.JS 1.2.0
