# 2.0.0

Lots of big, juicy, modernising changes here.
Make sure you at least read the [migration](#migration) guide.

Contents:
- [Major New Features](#major-new-features)
- [Minor New Features](#minor-new-features)
- [Removals](#removals)
- [Changes: Backwards-Incompatible](#changes-backwards-incompatible)
- [Changes: Backwards-Compatible](#changes-backwards-compatible)
- [Changes: Auto-Migratable](#changes-auto-migratable)
- [Migration](#migration)
- [Thanks](#thanks)


# Major New Features

* [Scala 3](https://dotty.epfl.ch/docs/reference/overview.html) support

* React Hooks ([doc](../HOOKS.md))

* [React 17](https://reactjs.org/blog/2020/10/20/react-v17.html)
  * Contexts now have optional displayNames.
    You can optionally specify it on creation via `React.createContext(displayName, defaultValue)`.
    You can also read it via `.displayName`.
  * Add `disableRemotePlayback` HTML attribute
  * Add `enterKeyHint` HTML attribute

* Effect generalisation:
  * You can now provide any kind of supported effect in place of just `Callback(To)` in many cases.
    Eg. you can now pass an `AsyncCallback` to an event handler without converting it to a `Callback`.
  * Additional effect types can be used by including the appropriate module; no imports required.
    Eg. if you include the Cats Effect extension module you can pass an `IO` directly to scalajs-react.
  * The default effect types are now configurable. Default effect types are used when scalajs-react provides
    you with effect values. Eg. calling `.props` from `BackendScope` used to be hardcoded to return a
    `CallbackTo[Props]` because `CallbackTo` used to be hardcoded as the default sync effect type.
      * If you use the `core` module then everything will be the same as it was with `Callback(To)` and
        `AsyncCallback` being the default sync and async effect types respectively.
      * If you use the new `core-bundle-cats_effect` module instead of `core`, then Cats Effects' `SyncIO`
        and `IO` types will be the default sync and async effect types respectively.
  * The `Callback(To)`, `AsyncCallback`, `CallbackOption` classes are now optional.
    If you use a different core bundle (eg. `core-bundle-cats_effect` instead of `core`) then classes like
    `CallbackTo` wont even be on the classpath unless you explicitly add the `callback` module.

* Modularity. There are now many more modules (i.e. Maven artifacts) that are smaller and more pluggable,
  for increased flexibility. For example, the React Scala.JS facades now live in their own modules without
  any other scalajs-react specific functionality.
  ([doc](../MODULES.md))

* Global settings have been fixed and revamped. See the [new guide here](../CONFIG.md).
  This allows you to produce different dev and prod builds without making code changes.


# Minor New Features

* Add support for [Monocle v3](https://www.optics.dev/Monocle)

* Add Router DSL to handle repeated query params like `?a=1&a=2`:
  * `queryToSeq` which gives you a `Seq[(String, String)]`
  * `queryToMultimap` which gives you a `Map[String, Seq[String]`

* Add to `object Callback`:
  * `def runAll(callbacks: CallbackTo[Any]*): Callback` -- Any exceptions get a `printStackTrace` and are then discarded, and the next callback run.

* Add to `object CallbackTo`:
  * `def fromJsFn[A](f: js.Function0[A]): CallbackTo[A]`

* Add to `Callback{,To}` instances:
  * `def reset: Callback` -- If this completes successfully, discard the result. If any exception occurs, call `printStackTrace` and continue.

* Add to `AsyncCallback` instances:
  * `def reset: AsyncCallback[Unit]` -- If this completes successfully, discard the result. If any exception occurs, call `printStackTrace` and continue.

* New extension method `showDom(): String` available on mounted components given
  `import japgolly.scalajs.react.test._` and/or `import japgolly.scalajs.react.test.ReactTestUtil._`


# Removals

* Dropped support for Scala 2.12
* Dropped support for Scala.JS 0.6.x
* Dropped Scalaz support. The following modules are no longer available:
  * `ext-monocle` (deprecated version of `ext-monocle-scalaz`)
  * `ext-monocle-scalaz`
  * `ext-scalaz72`
* Removed state monad support (`ReactS`, `ReactST`, etc)
* Removed code deprecated in 1.5.x
* Removed `scala-collection-compat` as a dependency
* Removed `CallbackKleisli`
* Removed `.namespace` from VDOM tags - it's an ancient legacy artifact that is no longer used


# Changes: Backwards-Incompatible

* If you used to just add the `extra` module to your sbt's `libraryDependencies` and
  rely on `core` being included as a transitive dependency, it will no longer work.
  Explicitly add the `core` to your `libraryDependencies`.

* In `ReactTestUtils`, `act` and `actAsync` now return the argument's value after it's executed

* `RouterCtl#onLinkClick` now returns a `Option[Callback]` instead of a `CallbackOption[Unit]`.
   If necessary, wrap in `CallbackOption.optionCallback` to convert back to `CallbackOption[Unit]`,
   or `.getOrEmpty` to turn into a `Callback`.

* `traverse` and `sequence` methods in `Callback`, `CallbackTo`, `AsyncCallback`, `CallbackOption`
  now require an `Iterable` instead of an `IterableOnce`

* Backwards-incompatible module changes:

    | Old Module Name        | New Module Name        |
    |------------------------|------------------------|
    | `ext-cats`             | `core-ext-cats`        |
    | `ext-cats-effect`      | `core-ext-cats_effect` |
    | `ext-monocle`          | *Discontinued*         |
    | `ext-monocle-cats`     | `extra-ext-monocle2`   |
    | `ext-monocle-scalaz`   | *Discontinued*         |
    | `ext-scalaz72`         | *Discontinued*         |

* `-Xelide-below` no longer used.
  There are a few runtime checks that scalajs-react performs in a few places (currently js component wrapping,
  router construction). Previously you could disable and remove these from your JS output by specifying
  `-Xelide-below ASSERTION` as a scalac flag. Scala 3 doesn't support elision and it's too obscure a feature anyway
  so as of this version, scalajs-react runtime assertions will always appear in development mode (`fastOptJS`) and
  will be removed in production mode (`fullOptJS`).

* Upgraded the Cats Effect to v3

* The SVG attribute `colorProfile` is now `colorProfileAttr`

# Changes: Backwards-Compatible

* `ReactTestUtils`:
  * `render` methods now call `act()` under the hood
  * `with*Render*` methods that take a `(f: M => A)` can now also take
    * `(f: (Element, M) => A)`
    * `withParent(f: Element => A)`

* Reusability derivation now also includes a reference-equality check by default.
  If the reference-equality check fails, then it falls back to a content-based check.

* `VdomNode` instances now have a `renderIntoDOM` method (just like `VdomElement`)

* Make covariant:
  * `AsyncCallback`
  * `AsyncCallback.Forked`
  * `CallbackTo`
  * `CallbackOption`

* Add `withFilter` to `Callback(To)` and `AsyncCallback`

* Bug fixes:
  * ScalaFnComponents now use `VdomNode`s instead of `VdomElement`s
  * ForwardRefs now use `VdomNode`s instead of `VdomElement`s
  * Input to `AsyncCallback.traverse` et al should only be evaluated once per callback invocation
  * Input to `CallbackOption.traverse` et al should only be evaluated once per callback invocation

* Avoid boxing in `React.Context` and `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate`

* `Px[A]#extract` now takes an implicit `Px.Extract[A](Px[A] => A)` argument instead of being a macro.
  If you're using this exotic feature, you can now provide your own `Px.Extract` typeclass instances.

* Backwards-compatible dependency upgrades:
  * cats         to 2.6.1
  * monocle (v2) to 2.1.0
  * scala        to 2.13.6
  * scala.js     to 1.5.1
  * sourcecode   to 0.2.7


# Changes: Auto-Migratable

You can run the script in the Migration section at the bottom of the page to automatically perform these changes.

* If you use any of the Router DSL `.addCondition` methods and provide a `Page => CallbackTo[Boolean]`,
  you'll now need to add a `By` suffix (eg. `addConditionBy`).

* Renamed
  * `CatsReact` ⇒ `ReactCats`
  * `MonocleReact` ⇒ `ReactMonocle`
  * In `ReactTestUtils`:
    * `withNewBodyElementAsyncCallback` ⇒ `withNewBodyElementAsync`
    * `withNewDocumentElementAsyncCallback` ⇒ `withNewDocumentElementAsync`
    * `withRenderedAsyncCallback` ⇒ `withRenderedAsync`
    * `withRenderedIntoBodyAsyncCallback` ⇒ `withRenderedIntoBodyAsync`
    * `withRenderedIntoDocumentAsyncCallback` ⇒ `withRenderedIntoDocumentAsync`

* Renamed (with old names still in place but deprecated)
  * `AsyncCallback.{byName ⇒ suspend}`
  * `Callback.{byName ⇒ suspend}`
  * `CallbackTo.{byName ⇒ suspend}`
  * `CallbackOption.{liftOption ⇒ option}`
  * `CallbackOption.{liftOptionCallback ⇒ optionCallback}`
  * `CallbackOption.{liftOptionLike ⇒ maybe}`
  * `CallbackOption.{liftOptionLikeCallback ⇒ maybeCallback}`
  * `CallbackOption.{liftValue ⇒ delay}`
  * `CallbackOption.liftCallback(callback) ⇒ callback.toCBO`
  * `CallbackOption(callback) ⇒ callback.asCBO`
  * `JsFnComponent.fromScala.{byName ⇒ delay}`
  * `Reusability.{byName ⇒ suspend}`

* Renamed any vdom method names from `` `kebab-case` `` to `camelCase`


# Migration

1. Make sure to read the [Changes: Backwards-Incompatible](#changes-backwards-incompatible) section above.

2. Run this:

    ```sh
    find . -type f -name '*.scala' -exec perl -pi -e '
      s/\b(AsyncCallback[ .]+)byName\b/\1suspend/g;
      s/\b(Callback[ .]+)byName\b/\1suspend/g;
      s/\b(CallbackTo[ .]+)byName\b/\1suspend/g;
      s/\b(CallbackOption[ .]+)liftOption\b/\1option/g;
      s/\b(CallbackOption[ .]+)liftOptionCallback\b/\1optionCallback/g;
      s/\b(CallbackOption[ .]+)liftOptionLike\b/\1maybe/g;
      s/\b(CallbackOption[ .]+)liftOptionLikeCallback\b/\1maybeCallback/g;
      s/\b(CallbackOption[ .]+)liftValue\b/\1delay/g;
      s/\bCallbackOption *\( *([a-zA-Z_](?:[a-zA-Z0-9_. ]*[a-zA-Z0-9_])?) *\)/\1.asCBO/g;
      s/\bCallbackOption[ .]+liftCallback *\( *([a-zA-Z_](?:[a-zA-Z0-9_. ]*[a-zA-Z0-9_])?) *\)/\1.toCBO/g;
      s/\b(JsFnComponent[ .]+fromScala[ .]+)byName\b/\1delay/g;
      s/\b(Reusability[ .]+)byName\b/\1suspend/g;
      s/\bMonocleReact\b/ReactMonocle/g;
      s/\bCatsReact\b/ReactCats/g;
      s/\b(withNewBodyElementAsync)Callback\b/\1/g;
      s/\b(withNewDocumentElementAsync)Callback\b/\1/g;
      s/\b(withRenderedAsync)Callback\b/\1/g;
      s/\b(withRenderedIntoBodyAsync)Callback\b/\1/g;
      s/\b(withRenderedIntoDocumentAsync)Callback\b/\1/g;
      s/\bnew OnUnmount.Backend\b/OnUnmount()/g;
      s/\b(addCondition(?:With(?:Optional)?Fallback)?)( *\( *[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]* +=>)/\1By\2/g;
      s/`all-scroll`/allScroll/g;
      s/`bidi-override`/bidiOverride/g;
      s/`border-box`/borderBox/g;
      s/`break-all`/breakAll/g;
      s/`break-word`/breakWord/g;
      s/`cjk-decimal`/cjkDecimal/g;
      s/`col-resize`/colResize/g;
      s/`color-profile`/colorProfile/g;
      s/`content-box`/contentBox/g;
      s/`context-menu`/contextMenu/g;
      s/`decimal-leading-zero`/decimalLeadingZero/g;
      s/`e-resize`/eResize/g;
      s/`ew-resize`/ewResize/g;
      s/`font-face-format`/fontFaceFormat/g;
      s/`font-face-name`/fontFaceName/g;
      s/`font-face-src`/fontFaceSrc/g;
      s/`font-face-uri`/fontFaceUri/g;
      s/`font-face`/fontFace/g;
      s/`hiragana-iroha`/hiraganaIroha/g;
      s/`inline-block`/inlineBlock/g;
      s/`inline-flex`/inlineFlex/g;
      s/`inline-table`/inlineTable/g;
      s/`katakana-iroha`/katakanaIroha/g;
      s/`keep-all`/keepAll/g;
      s/`line-through`/lineThrough/g;
      s/`list-item`/listItem/g;
      s/`lower-alpha`/lowerAlpha/g;
      s/`lower-greek`/lowerGreek/g;
      s/`lower-latin`/lowerLatin/g;
      s/`lower-roman`/lowerRoman/g;
      s/`missing-glyph`/missingGlyph/g;
      s/`n-resize`/nResize/g;
      s/`ne-resize`/neResize/g;
      s/`nesw-resize`/neswResize/g;
      s/`no-drop`/noDrop/g;
      s/`not-allowed`/notAllowed/g;
      s/`ns-resize`/nsResize/g;
      s/`nw-resize`/nwResize/g;
      s/`nwse-resize`/nwseResize/g;
      s/`padding-box`/paddingBox/g;
      s/`pre-line`/preLine/g;
      s/`pre-wrap`/preWrap/g;
      s/`preserve-3d`/preserve3d/g;
      s/`row-resize`/rowResize/g;
      s/`s-resize`/sResize/g;
      s/`se-resize`/seResize/g;
      s/`sw-resize`/swResize/g;
      s/`table-caption`/tableCaption/g;
      s/`table-cell`/tableCell/g;
      s/`table-column-group`/tableColumnGroup/g;
      s/`table-column`/tableColumn/g;
      s/`table-footer-group`/tableFooterGroup/g;
      s/`table-header-group`/tableHeaderGroup/g;
      s/`table-row-group`/tableRowGroup/g;
      s/`table-row`/tableRow/g;
      s/`text-bottom`/textBottom/g;
      s/`text-top`/textTop/g;
      s/`under left`/underLeft/g;
      s/`under right`/underRight/g;
      s/`upper-alpha`/upperAlpha/g;
      s/`upper-latin`/upperLatin/g;
      s/`upper-roman`/upperRoman/g;
      s/`vertical-text`/verticalText/g;
      s/`w-resize`/wResize/g;
      s/`x-large`/xLarge/g;
      s/`x-small`/xSmall/g;
      s/`xx-large`/xxLarge/g;
      s/`xx-small`/xxSmall/g;
      s/`zoom-in`/zoomIn/g;
      s/`zoom-out`/zoomOut/g;
    ' {} +
    ```


# Thanks

A lot of this was kindly sponsored by [Gemini](https://www.gemini.edu/)/[NOIRLab](https://nationalastro.org/)/[AURA](https://www.aura-astronomy.org/).
Huge thanks to [@cquiroz](https://github.com/cquiroz) for making this possible, and to [@rpiaggio](https://github.com/rpiaggio) for the awesome ideas
that helped guide design.

We all want features like Scala 3 support but in reality it's a ton of work to implement.
It's not very feasible for an OSS maintainer to do literally months of full-time work for free.
On behalf of myself and the scalajs-react community, thank you so much for sponsoring this huge effort!
